Documentation guidance for modifications on resource hierarchy (#874)
terraform-google-modules/terraform-example-foundation: docs/change_resource_hierarchy.md

# Guidance for modifications of the resource hierarchy

This guide explains the instructions to change resource hierarchy during Terraform Foundation Example blueprint deployment.

The current deployment scenario of Terraform Foundation Example blueprint considers a flat resource hierarchy where all folders are at the same level and have one folder for each environment. Here is a detailed explanation of each folder:

| Folder | Description |
| --- | --- |
| bootstrap | Contains the seed and CI/CD projects that are used to deploy foundation components. |

> | common | Contains projects with cloud resources used by the organization. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| common | Contains projects with common resources used by the organization like logging, SCC and hybrid connectivity. |
```

| production | Environment folder that contains projects with cloud resources that have been promoted into production. |
| non-production | Environment folder that contains a replica of the production environment to let you test workloads before you put them into production. |
| development | Environment folder that is used as a development and sandbox environment. |

This document covers a scenario where you can have two or more levels of folders, with an environment-centric focus: `environments -> ... -> business units`.

| Current Hierarchy | Changed Hierarchy |
| --- | --- |
| <pre>example-organization/<br>├── fldr-bootstrap<br>├── fldr-common<br>├── <b>fldr-development *</b><br>├── <b>fldr-non-production *</b><br>└── <b>fldr-production *</b><br></pre> | <pre>example-organization/<br>├── fldr-bootstrap<br>├── fldr-common<br>├── <b>fldr-development *</b><br>│   ├── finance<br>│   └── retail<br>├── <b>fldr-non-production *</b><br>│   ├── finance<br>│   └── retail<br>└── <b>fldr-production *</b><br>    ├── finance<br>    └── retail<br></pre> |

## Code Changes - Build Files

> Review the `tf-wrapper.sh`. It is a bash script helper responsible for applying  terraform configurations for Terraform Foundation Example blueprint. The `tf-wrapper.sh` script works based on the current branch (see [Branching strategy](../README.md#branching-strategy)) and searches for a folder in the source code where name matches the current branch name. When it finds a folder it applies the terraform configurations. These changes below will make `tf-wrapper.sh` capable of searching deeper for matching folders and complying with your source code folder hierarchy.

Reviewer: @daniel-cit @felipecrescencio-cit Since we have identified the changes needed could we make these edits directly on the wrapper and ask users to change max depth as needed?

Reviewer: We discussed offline to make the changes as a follow up

    local lenv_path=$1
    local lbase_dir=$2
    local lcomponent=$3
    local lenv=$4

    if [[ "$lenv_path" =~ ^($lbase_dir)/(.+)/$lenv ]] ; then
        # The ${BASH_REMATCH[2]} means the second group in regex expression
        # This group is the folders between base dir and env
        # This value guarantees that tf-plan file name will be unique for each environment
        current_component=$(echo ${BASH_REMATCH[2]} | sed -r 's/\//-/g')
    else
        current_component=$lcomponent
    fi
    }

    #🟢 End of New check_env_path_folder function

    case "$action" in
    init|plan|apply|show|validate )
    ...
    ```

## Code Changes - Terraform Files

<pre>
example-organization/
├── bootstrap
├── common
├── <b>development *</b>
│   ├── finance
│   └── retail
├── <b>non-production *</b>
│   ├── finance
│   └── retail
└── <b>production *</b>
    ├── finance
    └── retail
</pre>

*Example 1 - An example of Terraform Foundation Example with hierarchy changed*

### Step 2-environments

1. Create the folder hierarchy for the business units in each environment.

    Example:

    2-environments/envs/development/main.tf

    ```text
    module "env" {

>         source = "../../modules/env_baseline"

Reviewer: Couldnt these changes be made within baseline so they are replicated for all envs without any code change?

Author: Done
